[water burbling]
c0000001
[water gurgling]
c0000002
[GORILLA WARRIOR]
Hey, Sein!
c0000003
Huh.
c0000004
There's a mage passing through.
c0000005
He said he's got time
to take our photo if we hurry!
c0000006
Never heard of it.
c0000007
A photo. What's that?
c0000008
Huh? Hm.
c0000009
♪
c0000010
[Sein grunts]
c0000011
[chuckles]
Just come on!
c0000012
Don't worry!
c0000013
-[Sein grunts]
-[Gorilla Warrior laughs]
c0000014
It'll be an adventure!
c0000015
The start of our legend!
c0000016
♪
c0000017
[fire crackling]
c0000018
♪
c0000019
c0000020
[STARK] You said this guy's
a strong warrior, right?
c0000021
He's a dwarf who's stood guard
c0000022
over the next village
for almost 400 years.
c0000023
I know they live a long time,
c0000024
but what's their
life expectancy?
c0000025
Usually about three centuries.
c0000026
He's a long-lived friend
of mine.
c0000027
Everyone calls him
Old Man Voll.
c0000028
I want to chat with him
one more time before he dies.
c0000029
[STARK]
Wow, you're all heart, huh?
c0000030
A rare opportunity.
c0000031
There probably
aren't many people
c0000032
who can talk about
the past with you.
c0000033
I see why you're
looking forward to it.
c0000034
I suppose I can accept a detour
if it's that important to you.
c0000035
Thank you, Fern.
We'll stay for a decade or so.
c0000036
[FERN] We're staying
one week at most.
c0000037
Huh?
c0000038
Is that the village?
c0000039
[FRIEREN]
Old Man Voll.
c0000040
It's been a while.
c0000041
You see?
I did my best with the stories,
c0000042
but nothing could live up
to the real thing.
c0000043
This guy looks too old
to stand up.
c0000044
Remind me.
Who are you, again?
c0000045
[STARK]
He's totally decrepit.
c0000046
C'mon, it's me, Frieren.
c0000047
Hm. Ah, yes,
I remember you now.
c0000048
Uh...
c0000049
What's the point
in pretending to be senile?
c0000050
-[thwacks]
-[grunts]
c0000051
[thudding]
c0000052
Most deaths in battle
c0000053
come from the careless
underestimation
c0000054
of your opponent.
c0000055
Arrogance is
the greatest weakness
c0000056
of people and demons alike.
c0000057
[groaning]
c0000058
[VOLL]
Trouble standing?
c0000059
It doesn't matter
how strong you are.
c0000060
An injury can be
the end of anyone.
c0000061
Especially if that person
doesn't defend themselves.
c0000062
[sighs]
c0000063
[VOLL]
If I had drawn my sword,
c0000064
you'd be down one leg,
young man.
c0000065
[FRIEREN] Your strategies
are as underhanded as ever.
c0000066
Yes, indeed.
c0000067
It's good to see you, Frieren.
c0000068
Please, make yourself at home.
c0000069
[chuckles]
c0000070
[STARK]
Wait. Frieren?
c0000071
I can't walk.
c0000072
That's fine.
c0000073
You'll be training here
with him anyway.
c0000074
[STARK]
Right.
c0000075
That old man
is really something else.
c0000076
[crickets chirping]
c0000077
[MALE VILLAGER 16A ]
And you're more than welcome
c0000078
to use the firewood.
c0000079
[FRIEREN] Fern? If we're going
to be here for ten years,
c0000080
we'll need to find some work.
c0000081
[FERN]
We talked about this.
c0000082
We're staying
for a week, remember?
c0000083
[FRIEREN]
Okay, fine.
c0000084
[leaves rustling]
c0000085
♪
c0000086
[thudding]
c0000087
[MALE VILLAGER 16B]
This is a small village.
c0000088
Sometimes we struggle
to find help
c0000089
during the harvest,
so thank you.
c0000090
It's not like we have
anything else to do.
c0000091
Well, anyway...
c0000092
this is the happiest
I've ever seen Old Man Voll.
c0000093
Until your party arrived,
c0000094
I didn't know that
he had any friends.
c0000095
He's a senile old man.
c0000096
Conversations
are a struggle for him.
c0000097
He's defended the village
from monsters and demons
c0000098
for longer
than we've been alive,
c0000099
but no one even knows why.
c0000100
He's like our protective deity.
c0000101
So he's always
been lonely, then.
c0000102
[wheels rattling]
c0000103
♪
c0000104
[FRIEREN] A week really
flies by, doesn't it?
c0000105
How is Stark?
c0000106
[VOLL] He's improved
a great deal for one week.
c0000107
Humans develop quickly.
c0000108
[FRIEREN]
They do.
c0000109
I've been meaning to say
thank you, by the way.
c0000110
[VOLL]
Hm?
c0000111
I didn't understand back then,
but I'm grateful now.
c0000112
All those years ago,
c0000113
you gave me a reason to get
to know Himmel and the others.
c0000114
[HIMMEL] What made you
decide to take this post,
c0000115
Old Man Voll?
c0000116
[VOLL]
It's ancient history now.
c0000117
Doesn't matter. Not anymore.
c0000118
People don't often
risk their lives
c0000119
for something
that doesn't matter.
c0000120
Hm.
c0000121
It was my wife.
c0000122
This is the village she loved.
c0000123
I will protect it until I die.
c0000124
♪
c0000125
[VOLL]
She was a human.
c0000126
I'm keeping a promise
to someone
c0000127
the world has long forgotten.
c0000128
Through this act, I remember.
c0000129
I'm sorry. But I won't say
anything further.
c0000130
How could I describe her?
c0000131
Her face, her voice,
the light I saw in her eyes?
c0000132
This is my memory,
and I will carry it alone.
c0000133
It sounds silly, doesn't it?
c0000134
Keeping a promise to the dead.
c0000135
Guarding a home
she'd no longer recognize.
c0000136
[HIMMEL]
Yes, it does.
c0000137
But it still matters.
c0000138
Living or dead, you made
a promise to someone you love.
c0000139
She'd be glad to know
you've kept it.
c0000140
Himmel...
c0000141
you have the makings
of a great hero.
c0000142
I have no doubt that
you'll defeat the Demon King.
c0000143
My wife's greatest wish
was to lead an ordinary life
c0000144
in the era of peace that
the defeat of the Demon King
c0000145
would surely
have brought about.
c0000146
I look forward
to the day of your victory.
c0000147
I will carry your memory
as I have carried hers.
c0000148
Don't get me wrong.
I love the idea,
c0000149
but you have more
important memories to focus on.
c0000150
And our stories are covered.
c0000151
Frieren and Eisen
will know them.
c0000152
[EISEN] I won't live
nearly as long as she will.
c0000153
Oh, yes.
c0000154
Guess it'll be your job, then.
c0000155
Hm.
c0000156
[HIMMEL] You'll be the one
to carry our memories
c0000157
into the future.
c0000158
Won't you?
c0000159
I guess if I have to.
c0000160
[VOLL]
I see.
c0000161
You've been blessed
with good companions.
c0000162
Oh, Frieren. Remind me later.
c0000163
I have a collection
of handsome poses
c0000164
to show you
for your recollections.
c0000165
[FRIEREN] On second thought,
maybe I won't remember you.
c0000166
He showed me the poses,
c0000167
but I doubt
it was actually necessary.
c0000168
Almost feels like
a waste of a memory.
c0000169
[VOLL]
Tell me something.
c0000170
Do you remember
that Hero's face?
c0000171
Yes, of course, I do.
c0000172
And his voice?
c0000173
Hm?
c0000174
Please, don't insult me.
c0000175
I remember everything.
c0000176
Himmel is the reason I decided
I'd get to know people at all.
c0000177
Like your reason for defending
this village from danger.
c0000178
It matters to me.
c0000179
[VOLL]
I see.
c0000180
A reason, huh?
c0000181
Huh?
c0000182
I can't remember.
c0000183
It's all gone now.
c0000184
Her face. Her voice.
c0000185
The light I saw in her eyes.
c0000186
And yet, I continue.
c0000187
I protect the village
as I swore I would,
c0000188
because it matters to me.
c0000189
♪
c0000190
I never knew you had
a sense of humor, Old Man Voll.
c0000191
[VOLL]
By the way...
c0000192
what brings you
all the way out here?
c0000193
Where is your party headed?
c0000194
[FRIEREN]
We're going to Aureole.
c0000195
The land where souls rest.
c0000196
[VOLL]
And where is that?
c0000197
Ende, where the Demon King's
castle is.
c0000198
-[VOLL] I see.
-Hm?
c0000199
[VOLL]
So you're finally setting off
c0000200
to defeat the Demon King.
c0000201
That era of peace
she talked about.
c0000202
I hope it's everything
she dreamed of.
c0000203
Old Man Voll.
c0000204
The Demon King is alrea...
c0000205
[wind whooshing]
c0000206
-[FRIEREN] Hm.
-[VOLL] What is it?
c0000207
I'm just forming a memory.
c0000208
Something of you to carry
with me into the future.
c0000209
Hm.
c0000210
That sounds nice.
c0000211
I think I'd like that.
c0000212
♪
c0000213
I'm very glad I got to see you
at the end of my life.
c0000214
[FRIEREN]
You said that exact same thing
c0000215
when we spoke 80 years ago.
c0000216
[dog barking]
c0000217
Goodbye, Old Man Voll.
c0000218
Take care.
c0000219
[VOLL]
Frieren.
c0000220
Hm.
c0000221
[VOLL] I dreamed
of my wife last night.
c0000222
Really?
c0000223
Perhaps reminiscing with you
shook something loose
c0000224
that was buried
deep in my memory.
c0000225
[chuckles]
c0000226
See you later.
c0000227
♪
c0000228
What was that about?
c0000229
I'm looking for someone.
c0000230
I joined up with your party
for a reason.
c0000231
You remember, right?
c0000232
Because it was a lifelong
dream of yours
c0000233
to travel with
a sexy older woman?
c0000234
That's important, too,
but it's not the main thing.
c0000235
I'm traveling
with you for this.
c0000236
An old friend.
c0000237
He left my village
ten years ago,
c0000238
and it's time we saw
each other again.
c0000239
I remember you
telling us about him.
c0000240
Oh.
c0000241
A photo?
c0000242
Wow, these are rare.
c0000243
[SEIN]
A mage came through town.
c0000244
He agreed to take this photo
of the two of us.
c0000245
[FRIEREN] Do you have any leads
on where he went?
c0000246
It seems we're following
the same roads.
c0000247
I've actually met
several people who've seen him.
c0000248
The Northern Lands are
much smaller than they look.
c0000249
We can probably
keep going north
c0000250
and run into him eventually.
c0000251
That was ten years ago.
c0000252
I'm surprised so many people
remember seeing him.
c0000253
Well, he's the type
to leave an impression.
c0000254
And he has a unique name.
c0000255
Oh, really? What is it then?
c0000256
Goes by Gorilla Warrior.
c0000257
-[FERN] Huh?
-[FRIEREN] Huh?
c0000258
Oh.
c0000259
What is his real name?
c0000260
Hm?
c0000261
His real name?
c0000262
[STARK] Are you sure you guys
were best friends?
c0000263
I called him Gorilla Warrior
for years.
c0000264
Everyone in the village did.
c0000265
To be honest, he didn't
give us much of a choice.
c0000266
[STARK] And you all just
went along with it?
c0000267
[chuckles]
c0000268
By the way, I'm known
as Goatee Priest.
c0000269
[STARK]
Even worse.
c0000270
Did people call you that
before you were a priest
c0000271
with a goatee?
c0000272
I can't believe
we're still talking about this.
c0000273
His real name doesn't matter.
c0000274
People will remember
the one he chose for himself.
c0000275
And I guarantee he wouldn't let
them call him anything else.
c0000276
This guy sounds really weird.
c0000277
Oh, yeah.
c0000278
Weirdest guy I've met.
c0000279
♪
c0000280
[FRIEREN]
Once we cross the canyon,
c0000281
it's about one more week
to Auberst.
c0000282
Pretty soon, we'll finally
be in the magical city.
c0000283
This leg of our journey
has felt so long.
c0000284
And for once, I'm blameless.
c0000285
Usually it's my fault,
c0000286
but I didn't do
anything wrong this time.
c0000287
[SEIN] Would you mind if we
make a stop in this village?
c0000288
The road branches, and I'd like
to know which path to follow.
c0000289
Of course.
c0000290
I think we could all
use a little break.
c0000291
[kids grunting]
c0000292
[SEIN]
Excuse me.
c0000293
Did someone
who went by Gorilla
c0000294
pass through here
in the past ten years?
c0000295
[MALE VILLAGER 16C]
That's a wild question.
c0000296
Oh! You mean
Mister Gorilla Warrior.
c0000297
[STARK]
He knows him.
c0000298
He's the type
to leave an impression,
c0000299
and he has such a unique name.
c0000300
It was a long time ago, but he
defeated a monster for us.
c0000301
You wouldn't happen to know
c0000302
where he went
after that, would you?
c0000303
That's a little harder
to recall.
c0000304
Huh. Mister Gorilla had
a pretty good relationship
c0000305
with the stubborn old woman
who lives up on the plateau.
c0000306
You should try asking her.
c0000307
[STARK]
Stubborn old woman?
c0000308
That's a rude nickname.
c0000309
I'm a stubborn old woman,
as you can see.
c0000310
I'm not telling you
for free, son.
c0000311
Oh, I guess
she calls herself that.
c0000312
What do we have to do?
c0000313
♪
c0000314
I can think of a few things
you can do
c0000315
to earn the information.
c0000316
First, you will deliver
this letter
c0000317
to a man named Nagel.
c0000318
He's a blacksmith
in the neighboring town.
c0000319
I didn't know she'd have us
running errands.
c0000320
It reminds me of my adventures
with Himmel.
c0000321
You did things like this
with the great Hero?
c0000322
Helping people
with ordinary tasks
c0000323
was a daily occurrence for us.
c0000324
And most of the time,
those errands evolved
c0000325
into troublesome hunts
c0000326
for either treasure
or monsters.
c0000327
[STARK] Oh! Please,
don't jinx us like that.
c0000328
Monsters or not,
we should do everything we can
c0000329
to get her to open up to us.
c0000330
♪
c0000331
[SEIN] This stubborn old woman
just refuses to open up to us.
c0000332
[STARK] I'm starting to see why
everyone calls her that now.
c0000333
I'm sorry.
c0000334
If Himmel or Heiter were here,
c0000335
convincing her to talk to us
would have only taken hours.
c0000336
It's too bad that
everyone in our party
c0000337
is socially awkward.
c0000338
[STUBBORN]
Hm.
c0000339
Huh?
c0000340
There's one more thing.
c0000341
You're going to polish
the statue of the heroes
c0000342
in the canyon.
c0000343
Come with me.
I'll show you the way.
c0000344
[FRIEREN] I'd like to know
about the statue.
c0000345
[STUBBORN] It's a stone carving
of the heroes
c0000346
that supposedly saved
the whole world
c0000347
a long time ago.
c0000348
But that's all I know
about the thing.
c0000349
A couple of forgotten heroes.
c0000350
No one even knows their names.
c0000351
But we've looked after it
for generations.
c0000352
A couple
of forgotten heroes, huh?
c0000353
Speaking of names, young man,
you're Goatee Priest, right?
c0000354
What?
c0000355
How did you know about that?
c0000356
Hm.
c0000357
[STUBBORN]
Here. This is the statue.
c0000358
[FRIEREN]
A priest and a warrior.
c0000359
It's older than I thought
it would be.
c0000360
[FERN] They bear
a striking resemblance
c0000361
to Mister Sein
and Mister Gorilla.
c0000362
I think I recognize
the warrior.
c0000363
But I'm not sure how.
c0000364
Oh!
c0000365
-It's a statue of Kraft.
-Huh?
c0000366
[STARK]
Whoa! You're right.
c0000367
[FERN]
It looks just like him.
c0000368
Well, we should get started
while there's light.
c0000369
Huh.
c0000370
♪
c0000371
-Sein?
-[SEIN] I see.
c0000372
So, the warrior's
name is Kraft.
c0000373
And this one?
c0000374
[FRIEREN]
I'm sorry. I don't know.
c0000375
It's no matter.
c0000376
♪
c0000377
[HEITER]
What's this statue?
c0000378
Don't they look just like us?
c0000379
[GORILLA WARRIOR]
Aw, according to the chief,
c0000380
these guys were a duo
of ancient heroes.
c0000381
But nobody I talked to
remembers their names.
c0000382
We won't end up
like that, though.
c0000383
Our legend won't be
an easy one to forget.
c0000384
Huh?
c0000385
[GORILLA WARRIOR]
I'm going to change the world
c0000386
like Himmel and become
an unforgettable hero.
c0000387
[chuckles]
c0000388
It's our fate to be forgotten.
c0000389
Even the most vibrant stories
will fade.
c0000390
Himmel did amazing things
with his time in this world,
c0000391
but his story is no different.
c0000392
Huh.
c0000393
Well, when you put it that way,
c0000394
it sounds impossible
to make a mark.
c0000395
Huh?
c0000396
You think I could have
muscles like that
c0000397
if I worked out hard enough?
c0000398
I've got a new name.
c0000399
From now on,
call me Gorilla Warrior!
c0000400
[chuckles]
c0000401
Why would we do that?
c0000402
Because if I want to become
an unforgettable hero,
c0000403
then I need
a more memorable name.
c0000404
-Hm?
-[laughs]
c0000405
A strange approach,
but it's worth a try.
c0000406
-Huh.
-Goatee Priest.
c0000407
Now, how's that
for unforgettable?
c0000408
[gasps]
c0000409
[laughs]
That's a great name!
c0000410
[HEITER] You should
grow one when you can.
c0000411
Might look good.
c0000412
♪
c0000413
[wind whooshing]
c0000414
[SEIN]
We're finally done.
c0000415
That was a lot of work.
c0000416
[FRIEREN]
If only it was a bronze statue.
c0000417
I could have used a spell.
c0000418
[STUBBORN] I made Gorilla
polish it, too, a while back.
c0000419
You lot did a much better job
of it than he did, though.
c0000420
Fighting is pretty much
all he's good for.
c0000421
Whatever else
you say about him,
c0000422
his name sure was memorable.
c0000423
Oh?
c0000424
Gorilla talked about you
all the time.
c0000425
His friend, Goatee Priest.
c0000426
He said the two of you
would become heroes
c0000427
whose names would be
remembered forever.
c0000428
Foolish.
c0000429
♪
c0000430
Did you figure out
where Gorilla went?
c0000431
Yeah. Tur.
c0000432
It's a trading city
c0000433
in the middle
of the Northern Lands.
c0000434
[FRIEREN] That's a long way
to the east from here.
c0000435
And it's in the opposite
direction of Auberst.
c0000436
Yeah.
c0000437
-[STARK] Huh.
-[FERN] Huh.
c0000438
What am I gonna do now?
c0000439
[SEIN] I need to speak with
each of you, one at a time.
c0000440
[FRIEREN] Being a peacemaker
is a priest's job.
c0000441
[FERN]
You're embarrassing me.
c0000442
[SEIN]
I guess it's not so bad.
c0000443
Take care, then.